The President:
More than a decade ago, Congress set up a formula that governs
how doctors get paid by
the Medicare program.
The intent was to slow the
growth of Medicare costs,
but the result was a formula
that has proposed cutting
payments for America's doctors
year after year after year.
These are cuts that would not
only jeopardize our physicians'
pay, but our
seniors' health care.
Since 2003, Congress has acted
to prevent these pay cuts from
going into effect.
These votes were
largely bipartisan,
and they succeeded when
Democrats ran Congress and when
Republicans ran Congress -- which was most of the time.
This year, a majority of
Congress is willing to prevent a
pay cut of 21% -- a pay cut that would undoubtedly force some
doctors to stop seeing
Medicare patients altogether.
But this time, some Senate
Republicans may even block a
vote on this issue.
After years of voting
to defer these cuts,
the other party is now willing
to walk away from the needs of
our doctors and our seniors.
Now, I realize that simply
kicking these cuts down the road
another year is not a long-term
solution to this problem.
For years, I have said that a
system where doctors are left to
wonder if they'll get fairly
reimbursed makes absolutely no sense.
And I'm committed to
permanently reforming this
Medicare formula in a way that
balances fiscal responsibility
with the responsibility we
have to doctors and seniors.
In addition, we're already
taking significant steps to slow
the growth of Medicare costs
through health insurance reform
-- not by targeting
doctors and seniors,
but by eliminating 50%
of the waste, fraud,
and abuse in the system by 2012.
This not only
strengthens Medicare,
it saves taxpayer dollars.
I'm absolutely willing to take
the difficult steps necessary to
lower the cost of Medicare
and put our budget on a more
fiscally sustainable path.
But I'm not willing to do that
by punishing hard-working
physicians or the millions of
Americans who count on Medicare.
That's just wrong.
And that's why in
the short-term,
Congress must act to prevent
this pay cut to doctors.
If they don't act, doctors will
see a 21% cut in their Medicare
payments this week.
This week, doctors will
start receiving these lower
reimbursements from
the Medicare program.
That could lead them to stop
participating in the Medicare program.
And that could lead seniors
to lose their doctors.
We can't allow this to happen.
We have to fix this problem so
that our doctors can get paid
for the life-saving services
they provide and keep their
doors open.
We have to fix this problem to
keep the promise of Medicare for
our seniors so that they get
the health care they deserve.
So I urge Republicans in the
Senate to at least allow a
majority of Senators and
Congressmen to stop this pay cut.
I urge them to stand with
America's seniors and America's doctors.
Thanks.